sql-infra: add resource control feature (#12353)
pingcap/docs: information-schema/information-schema-resource-groups.md

---
title: RESOURCE_GROUPS
summary: Learn the `RESOURCE_GROUPS` information_schema table.
---

# RESOURCE_GROUPS

> **Warning:**
>
> This feature is experimental and its form and usage may change in subsequent versions.

> The `RESOURCE_GROUPS` table shows information about all resource groups. See [Use Resource Control to Achieve Resource Isolation](/tidb-resource-control.md).

Author: ```suggestion
The `RESOURCE_GROUPS` table shows the information about all resource groups. For more information, see [Use Resource Control to Achieve Resource Isolation](/tidb-resource-control.md).
```

| RU_PER_SEC | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| RU_TOKENS  | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| BURSTABLE  | varchar(3)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
+------------+-------------+------+------+---------+-------+
4 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

## Examples

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
mysql> CREATE RESOURCE GROUP rg1 RU_PER_SEC=1000; -- Create the resource group rg1
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.34 sec)
mysql> SHOW CREATE RESOURCE GROUP rg1; -- Displays the definition of the rg1 resource group.
+----------------+---------------------------------------------+
| Resource_Group | Create Resource Group                       |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------+
| rg1            | CREATE RESOURCE GROUP `rg1` RU_PER_SEC=1000 |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
mysql> SELECT * FROM information_schema.resource_groups WHERE NAME = 'rg1';
+------+------------+-----------+-----------+
| NAME | RU_PER_SEC | RU_TOKENS | BURSTABLE |
+------+------------+-----------+-----------+
| rg1  |       1000 |    100000 | NO        |
+------+------------+-----------+-----------+

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

---
title: RESOURCE_GROUPS
summary: Learn the `RESOURCE_GROUPS` information_schema table.
---

# RESOURCE_GROUPS

> **Warning:**
>
> This feature is experimental and its form and usage might change in subsequent versions.

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> **Note:**
>
> This feature is not available on [Serverless Tier clusters](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#serverless-tier-beta).

</CustomContent>

The `RESOURCE_GROUPS` table shows the information about all resource groups. For more information, see [Use Resource Control to Achieve Resource Isolation](/tidb-resource-control.md).

```sql
USE information_schema;
DESC resource_groups;
```

```sql
+------------+-------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| Field      | Type        | Null | Key  | Default | Extra |
+------------+-------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| NAME       | varchar(32) | NO   |      | NULL    |       |
| RU_PER_SEC | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| BURSTABLE  | varchar(3)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
+------------+-------------+------+------+---------+-------+

> 4 rows in set (0.00 sec)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

```

## Examples

```sql
mysql> CREATE RESOURCE GROUP rg1 RU_PER_SEC=1000; -- Create the resource group rg1
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.34 sec)
mysql> SHOW CREATE RESOURCE GROUP rg1; -- Display the definition of the rg1 resource group
+----------------+---------------------------------------------+
| Resource_Group | Create Resource Group                       |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------+
| rg1            | CREATE RESOURCE GROUP `rg1` RU_PER_SEC=1000 |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
mysql> SELECT * FROM information_schema.resource_groups WHERE NAME = 'rg1';
+------+------------+-----------+
| NAME | RU_PER_SEC | BURSTABLE |
+------+------------+-----------+
| rg1  |       1000 | NO        |

> +------+------------+-----------+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+------+------------+-----------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

---
title: RESOURCE_GROUPS
summary: Learn the `RESOURCE_GROUPS` information_schema table.
---

> The `RESOURCE_GROUPS` table shows information about all resource groups. See [Resource Conctrol in TiDB](/tidb-resource-control.md).

Author: ```suggestion
The `RESOURCE_GROUPS` table shows information about all resource groups. See [Use Resource Control to Achieve Resource Isolation](/tidb-resource-control.md).
```

```sql
USE information_schema;
DESC resource_groups;
```

```sql
+-----------------+-------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| Field           | Type        | Null | Key  | Default | Extra |
+-----------------+-------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| NAME            | varchar(32) | NO   |      | NULL    |       |
| MODE            | varchar(12) | NO   |      | NULL    |       |
| RRU             | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| RRU_TOKEN       | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| WRU             | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| WRU_TOKEN       | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| CPU             | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| READ_BANDWIDTH  | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| WRITE_BANDWIDTH | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
+-----------------+-------------+------+------+---------+-------+
9 rows in set (0.08 sec)
```

## Examples

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql

> mysql> CREATE RESOURCE GROUP rg1 RRU_PER_SEC=1000 WRU_PER_SEC=2000 ; -- Use RU_MODE to create the resource group rg1

Author: ```suggestion
mysql> CREATE RESOURCE GROUP rg1 RRU_PER_SEC=1000 WRU_PER_SEC=2000 ; -- Create the resource group rg1
```
